README.md, before:

# Java Logging Support for Cloud Foundry

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SAP/cf-java-logging-support.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SAP/cf-java-logging-support)
## Summary

This is a collection of support libraries for Java applications running on Cloud Foundry that serve two main purposes: It provides (a) means to emit *structured application log messages* and (b) instrument parts of your application stack to *collect request metrics*.

When we say structured, we actually mean in JSON format. In that sense, it shares ideas with [logstash-logback-encoder](https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder) (and a first internal version was actually based on it), but takes a simpler approach as we want to ensure that these structured messages adhere to standardized formats. With such standardized formats in place, it becomes much easier to ingest, process and search such messages in log analysis stacks like, e.g., [ELK](https://www.elastic.co/webinars/introduction-elk-stack).

If you're interested in the specifications of these standardized formats, you may want to have closer look at the `fields.yml` files in the [beats folder](./cf-java-logging-support-core/beats).

While [logstash-logback-encoder](https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder) is tied to [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/), we've tried to stay implementation neutral and have implemented the core functionality on top of [slf4j](http://www.slf4j.org/),  but provide implementations for both [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/) and [log4j2](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/) (and we're open to contributions that would support other implementations).

The instrumentation part is currently focusing on providing [request filters for Java Servlets](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/filters-137243.html) and [client and server filters for Jersey](https://jersey.java.net/documentation/latest/filters-and-interceptors.html), but again, we're open to contributions for other APIs and frameworks.

Last, there is also a sibling project on [node.js logging support](https://github.com/SAP/cf-nodejs-logging-support).

## Features and dependencies

As you can see from the structure of this repository, we're not providing one *uber* JAR that contains everything, but provide each feature separately. We also try to stay away from wiring up too many dependencies by tagging almost all of them as *provided.* As a consequence, it's your task to get all runtime dependencies resolved in your application POM file.

All in all, you should do the following:

* make up your mind which features you actually need,
* adjust your Maven dependencies accordingly,
* pick your favorite logging implementation, and
* adjust your logging configuration accordingly.

Say, you want to make use of the *servlet filter* feature, then you need to add the following dependency to your POM with property `cf-logging-version` referring to the latest version (currently `2.0.11`):

```xml
<properties>
	<cf-logging-version>2.0.11</cf-logging-version>
</properties>
```



``` xml

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  <artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-servlet</artifactId>
  <version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>
```

This feature only depends on the servlet API which you have included in your POM anyhow.

## Implementation variants and logging configurations

The *core* feature (on which all other features rely) is just using the `org.slf4j` API, but to actually get logs written, you need to pick an implementation feature. As stated above, we have two implementations

* `cf-java-logging-support-logback` based on [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/), and
* `cf-java-logging-support-log4j2` based on [log4j2](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/).

Again, we don't include dependencies to those implementation backends ourselves, so you need to provide the corresponding dependencies in your POM file:

*Using logback:*

``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  	<artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-logback</artifactId>
  	<version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
  	<groupId>ch.qos.logback</groupId>
   	<artifactId>logback-classic</artifactId>
   	<version>1.1.3</version>
 </dependency>
```

*Using log4j2:*

``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  	<artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-log4j2</artifactId>
  	<version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
	<artifactId>log4j-slf4j-impl</artifactId>
<version>2.7</version>
</dependency>
	<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
	<artifactId>log4j-core</artifactId>
	<version>2.7</version>
</dependency>
```

As they have slightly different ways to do configuration, you again need to do that yourself. But we hope that we've found an easy way to accomplish that. The one thing you have to do is pick our *encoder* in your `logback.xml` if you're using `logback` or our `layout` in your `log4j2.xml`if you're using `log4j2`.

Here are sort of the minimal configurations you'd need:

*logback.xml*:

``` xml
<configuration debug="false" scan="false">
	<appender name="STDOUT-JSON" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
       <encoder class="com.sap.hcp.cf.logback.encoder.JsonEncoder"/>
    </appender>
    <!-- for local development, you may want to switch to a more human-readable layout -->
    <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
            <pattern>%date %-5level [%thread] - [%logger] [%mdc] - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
    </appender>
    <root level="${LOG_ROOT_LEVEL:-WARN}">
       <!-- Use 'STDOUT' instead for human-readable output -->
       <appender-ref ref="STDOUT-JSON" />
    </root>
  	<!-- request metrics are reported using INFO level, so make sure the instrumentation loggers are set to that level -->
    <logger name="com.sap.hcp.cf" level="INFO" />
</configuration>
```

*log4j2.xml:*

``` xml
<Configuration
   status="warn" strict="true"
   packages="com.sap.hcp.cf.log4j2.converter,com.sap.hcp.cf.log4j2.layout">
	<Appenders>
        <Console name="STDOUT-JSON" target="SYSTEM_OUT" follow="true">
            <JsonPatternLayout charset="utf-8"/>
        </Console>
        <Console name="STDOUT" target="SYSTEM_OUT" follow="true">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} [%mdc] - %msg%n"/>
        </Console>
	</Appenders>
  <Loggers>
     <Root level="${LOG_ROOT_LEVEL:-WARN}">
        <!-- Use 'STDOUT' instead for human-readable output -->
        <AppenderRef ref="STDOUT-JSON" />
     </Root>
  	 <!-- request metrics are reported using INFO level, so make sure the instrumentation loggers are set to that level -->
     <Logger name="com.sap.hcp.cf" level="INFO"/>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

## Sample Application

In order to illustrate how the different features are used, this repository includes a simple application in the  [./sample folder](./sample).

## Documentation

More info on the actual implementation can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support/wiki).

Commit message:

Add Dynamic-Log-Level feature
- New package called com.sap.hcp.cf.logging.servlet.dynlog in project
  cf-java-logging-support-servlet contains the classes for dynamic logging.
- DynamicLogLevelProcessor is called in RequestLoggingFilter and adds log
  level to MDC (if available in request-header)
- Class DynamicLogLevelHelper in core-project provides the same mdc key for all
  classes of all subprojects that need to access the thread-specific
  log level threshold in the mdc.
- Log level is provided in header field via RSA signed JWT token
- The Public Key for JWT token verification has to be provided via
  environment variable to the application
- The HTTP header name for the JWT token can be changed via environment variable
- The new threshold for log levels is considered via TurboFilters when using
  Logback and via DynamicThresholdFilters when using log4j2
- A detailed description about how to use this feature can be found in
  DynamicLogLevels.md which is also referenced in the main README.md

Change-Id: I8eee88d4cba7374424e040290fe67c845b5db88e

README.md, after:

# Java Logging Support for Cloud Foundry

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SAP/cf-java-logging-support.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SAP/cf-java-logging-support)
## Summary

This is a collection of support libraries for Java applications running on Cloud Foundry that serve two main purposes: It provides (a) means to emit *structured application log messages* and (b) instrument parts of your application stack to *collect request metrics*.

When we say structured, we actually mean in JSON format. In that sense, it shares ideas with [logstash-logback-encoder](https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder) (and a first internal version was actually based on it), but takes a simpler approach as we want to ensure that these structured messages adhere to standardized formats. With such standardized formats in place, it becomes much easier to ingest, process and search such messages in log analysis stacks like, e.g., [ELK](https://www.elastic.co/webinars/introduction-elk-stack).

If you're interested in the specifications of these standardized formats, you may want to have closer look at the `fields.yml` files in the [beats folder](./cf-java-logging-support-core/beats).

While [logstash-logback-encoder](https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder) is tied to [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/), we've tried to stay implementation neutral and have implemented the core functionality on top of [slf4j](http://www.slf4j.org/),  but provide implementations for both [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/) and [log4j2](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/) (and we're open to contributions that would support other implementations).

The instrumentation part is currently focusing on providing [request filters for Java Servlets](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/filters-137243.html) and [client and server filters for Jersey](https://jersey.java.net/documentation/latest/filters-and-interceptors.html), but again, we're open to contributions for other APIs and frameworks.

Last, there is also a sibling project on [node.js logging support](https://github.com/SAP/cf-nodejs-logging-support).

## Features and dependencies

As you can see from the structure of this repository, we're not providing one *uber* JAR that contains everything, but provide each feature separately. We also try to stay away from wiring up too many dependencies by tagging almost all of them as *provided.* As a consequence, it's your task to get all runtime dependencies resolved in your application POM file.

All in all, you should do the following:

* make up your mind which features you actually need,
* adjust your Maven dependencies accordingly,
* pick your favorite logging implementation, and
* adjust your logging configuration accordingly.

Say, you want to make use of the *servlet filter* feature, then you need to add the following dependency to your POM with property `cf-logging-version` referring to the latest version (currently `2.0.11`):

```xml
<properties>
	<cf-logging-version>2.0.11</cf-logging-version>
</properties>
```



``` xml

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  <artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-servlet</artifactId>
  <version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>
```

This feature only depends on the servlet API which you have included in your POM anyhow.

## Implementation variants and logging configurations

The *core* feature (on which all other features rely) is just using the `org.slf4j` API, but to actually get logs written, you need to pick an implementation feature. As stated above, we have two implementations

* `cf-java-logging-support-logback` based on [logback](http://logback.qos.ch/), and
* `cf-java-logging-support-log4j2` based on [log4j2](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/).

Again, we don't include dependencies to those implementation backends ourselves, so you need to provide the corresponding dependencies in your POM file:

*Using logback:*

``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  	<artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-logback</artifactId>
  	<version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
  	<groupId>ch.qos.logback</groupId>
   	<artifactId>logback-classic</artifactId>
   	<version>1.1.3</version>
 </dependency>
```

*Using log4j2:*

``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.sap.hcp.cf.logging</groupId>
  	<artifactId>cf-java-logging-support-log4j2</artifactId>
  	<version>${cf-logging-version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
	<artifactId>log4j-slf4j-impl</artifactId>
<version>2.7</version>
</dependency>
	<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
	<artifactId>log4j-core</artifactId>
	<version>2.7</version>
</dependency>
```

As they have slightly different ways to do configuration, you again need to do that yourself. But we hope that we've found an easy way to accomplish that. The one thing you have to do is pick our *encoder* in your `logback.xml` if you're using `logback` or our `layout` in your `log4j2.xml`if you're using `log4j2`.

Here are sort of the minimal configurations you'd need:

*logback.xml*:

``` xml
<configuration debug="false" scan="false">
	<appender name="STDOUT-JSON" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
       <encoder class="com.sap.hcp.cf.logback.encoder.JsonEncoder"/>
    </appender>
    <!-- for local development, you may want to switch to a more human-readable layout -->
    <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
            <pattern>%date %-5level [%thread] - [%logger] [%mdc] - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
    </appender>
    <root level="${LOG_ROOT_LEVEL:-WARN}">
       <!-- Use 'STDOUT' instead for human-readable output -->
       <appender-ref ref="STDOUT-JSON" />
    </root>
  	<!-- request metrics are reported using INFO level, so make sure the instrumentation loggers are set to that level -->
    <logger name="com.sap.hcp.cf" level="INFO" />
</configuration>
```

*log4j2.xml:*

``` xml
<Configuration
   status="warn" strict="true"
   packages="com.sap.hcp.cf.log4j2.converter,com.sap.hcp.cf.log4j2.layout">
	<Appenders>
        <Console name="STDOUT-JSON" target="SYSTEM_OUT" follow="true">
            <JsonPatternLayout charset="utf-8"/>
        </Console>
        <Console name="STDOUT" target="SYSTEM_OUT" follow="true">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} [%mdc] - %msg%n"/>
        </Console>
	</Appenders>
  <Loggers>
     <Root level="${LOG_ROOT_LEVEL:-WARN}">
        <!-- Use 'STDOUT' instead for human-readable output -->
        <AppenderRef ref="STDOUT-JSON" />
     </Root>
  	 <!-- request metrics are reported using INFO level, so make sure the instrumentation loggers are set to that level -->
     <Logger name="com.sap.hcp.cf" level="INFO"/>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

## Dynamic Log Levels

This library provides the possibility to change the log-level threshold for a
single thread by adding a token in the header of a request. A detailed
description about how to apply this feature can be found
[here](./DynamicLogLevels.md).

## Sample Application

In order to illustrate how the different features are used, this repository includes a simple application in the  [./sample folder](./sample).

## Documentation

More info on the actual implementation can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support/wiki).
