cf-java-logging-support-core/beats/app-logs/docs/fields.asciidoc, before:


////
This file is generated! See etc/fields.yml and scripts/generate_field_docs.py
////

[[exported-fields]]
== Exported Fields

This document describes the fields that are exported by App-Logs. They are
grouped in the following categories:

* <<exported-fields-ctx>>
* <<exported-fields-app-logs>>

=== Summary
This is a specification of the "app-logs beat" message type that we use to store
"application logs" written via a proper logging infrastructure implementation.

NOTE: For Java applications running on CF, this is our logging support library, see
https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support

Field names follow the convention that we're not using camel case names, but
rather use "_" as a delimiter between parts.

For any field that actually represents a measure (or metric for that matter)
the name includes a descriptive suffix mnemonic that helps identifying the unit,
e.g.:

  * "_ms" -> milliseconds
  * "_b"  -> bytes
  * "_p"  -> percent
  * "_at" -> date with time
  * "_ts" -> timestamp

[[exported-fields-ctx]]
=== Context Fields

This group contains context information for the given application log message
such that analytics can slice and dice information based on these criteria.



==== written_at

type: date

required: True

The human-readable date when the message was written.


==== written_ts

type: long

example: 1456820553816849408

required: True

The timestamp in nano-second precision when the message was written.


==== correlation_id

type: string

example: db2d002e-2702-41ec-66f5-c002a80a3d3f

required: True

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages into a logical unit.

Currently, we use a UUID for that matter, but future versions may use
a different key for this.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.

NOTE: As these type of messages can be written at any time and outside
a "request context" it may happen that this correlation id does not
match with any other. Logging implementations may provide a way to
inherit correlation ids from request processing layers further up in
the processing stack. If so, that id should be used.


==== request_id

example: e24a5963-95eb-4568-b1ae-81b67c41e99a

required: False

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages to a request.


==== w3c_traceparent

type: string

example: 00-4bf92f3577b34da6a3ce929d0e0e4736-00f067aa0ba902b7-01

required: False

The content of the W3C traceparent header as defined in 
https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/#traceparent-header.
The traceparent allows correlation of logs to the request.


==== sap_passport

type: string

example: 2a54482a0300e60000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002a54482a

required: False

SAP Passport is an end to end tracing technology used in many SAP products.
It is a binary format encoded in hex notation.
Applications can add the whole SAP Passport in this field or give its constituents in the respective fields. 


==== sap_passport_Action

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the action of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ActionType

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the action type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ClientNumber

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the client number of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ConnectionCounter

type: integer

required: False

This field can contain the connection counter of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ConnectionId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the connection id type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ComponentName

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the component name of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ComponentType

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the component type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_PreviousComponentName

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the previous component name of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_TraceFlags

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the trace flags of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_TransactionId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the transaction id of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_RootContextId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the root context id of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_UserId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the user id of an SAP Passport. 


==== tenant_id

example: e24a5963-95eb-4568-b1ae-81b67c41e99a

required: False

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages to a tenant.


==== tenant_subdomain

example: acme-inc

required: False

A unique identifier that represents the subdomain of the current tenant specific request url, e.g. acme-inc in https://acme-inc.eu10.cloud.alm.sap/home


==== component_id

type: string

example: 9e6f3ecf-def0-4baf-8fac-9339e61d5645

required: True

A unique identifier of the software component that has written the message. 
It may either be a "service" or an "application" that can be deployed to
a container or VM, but it may not yet fully identify the actual "running instance" of
that "component".

NOTE: For applications in CF, this is the "application_id", but we may have more than one
instance of that running.


==== component_name

type: string

example: my-fancy-component

required: False

A human-friendly, not necessarily unique, name representing the software component.


==== component_type

type: string

example: application

required: True

The type of the software component that has written the message.

Either "application" or "service"


==== component_instance

type: string

example: 7

required: True

CF allows us to scale out horizontally by running several instances of the
same "component" in one container, this is identifying the instance.
Defaults to "0".


==== container_id

type: string

example: ???

format: ???

required: False

The unique identifier of the container on which the software component instance is running.

NOTE: If security/privacy is not an issue, an IP address would be ok.

NOTE: CF sets an environment variable "INSTANCE_IP" that is currently used
for that purpose


==== organization_id

type: string

example: 280437b3-dd8b-40b1-bbab-1f05a44345f8

required: True

The unique identifier of the Cloud Foundry organization to which the software component belongs.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== organization_name

type: string

example: acme

required: True

The human-readable name of the Cloud Foundry organization.

NOTE: Most likely NOT unique!

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== space_id

type: string

example: 280437b3-dd8b-40b1-bbab-1f05a44345f8

required: True

The unique identifier of the Cloud Foundry space to which the software component belongs.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== space_name

type: string

example: test

required: True

The human-readable name of the Cloud Foundry space.

NOTE: Most likely NOT unique!


==== layer

type: string

example: [JAVA:BusinessLogicController]

required: True

The execution layer in the overall processing chain that has written the message.


==== type

type: string

required: True

The type of the message.
To make the message self-contained this is the type tag.
As we're talking about log messages, it's always "logs".


[[exported-fields-app-logs]]
=== Application log message fields Fields

The individual fields of a log message. Should be familiar to anyone who
ever used a logging library in Java...



==== logger

type: string

example: com.sap.demo.shine.OrderController

required: True

The actual application entity that wrote the log message, e.g. the Java class name.

NOTE: In Java, this is the name that was passed to the LoggerFactory
when instantiating a Logger.


==== thread

type: string

example: http-nio-4655

required: False

The execution thread in which the log message has been written.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== level

type: string

example: INFO

required: True

The log "level" indicating the severity of the log message.


==== msg

type: string

example: This is a log messasge

required: True

The original log message that has been written by the application.


==== stacktrace

type: array

example: stacktrace: ["java.lang.NullPointerException","at com.sap.demo.exception.NullPointerException"]

required: False

Stacktrace information in case the message is reporting an exception.

NOTE: This MUST NOT contain NEWLINE or TAB characters!


==== categories

type: string

required: False

A list of names to further categorize this log message.


==== #cf

type: object

example: "#cf": {
  "string": [
    {"l":"some_label", "v":"some_value", "i": 0},
    {"l":"other_label", "v":"other_value", "i": 1}
  ]
}


required: False

An object containing collections of non-standard fields.
The field "string" contains custom fields with label "l", value "v" and an index "i".
The index can be used for field order during parsing.

NOTE: As this is "custom" there are no predefined fields here!

Commit message:

Add Exception Type and Message Fields
Fix and run the code and documentation generation for
the two new fields exception_type and exception_message.
Changes to the Python scripts are required for newer pyyaml
versions.

Signed-off-by: Karsten Schnitter <k.schnitter@sap.com>

cf-java-logging-support-core/beats/app-logs/docs/fields.asciidoc, after:


////
This file is generated! See etc/fields.yml and scripts/generate_field_docs.py
////

[[exported-fields]]
== Exported Fields

This document describes the fields that are exported by App-Logs. They are
grouped in the following categories:

* <<exported-fields-ctx>>
* <<exported-fields-app-logs>>

=== Summary
This is a specification of the "app-logs beat" message type that we use to store
"application logs" written via a proper logging infrastructure implementation.

NOTE: For Java applications running on CF, this is our logging support library, see
https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support

Field names follow the convention that we're not using camel case names, but
rather use "_" as a delimiter between parts.

For any field that actually represents a measure (or metric for that matter)
the name includes a descriptive suffix mnemonic that helps identifying the unit,
e.g.:

  * "_ms" -> milliseconds
  * "_b"  -> bytes
  * "_p"  -> percent
  * "_at" -> date with time
  * "_ts" -> timestamp

[[exported-fields-ctx]]
=== Context Fields

This group contains context information for the given application log message
such that analytics can slice and dice information based on these criteria.



==== written_at

type: date

required: True

The human-readable date when the message was written.


==== written_ts

type: long

example: 1456820553816849408

required: True

The timestamp in nano-second precision when the message was written.


==== correlation_id

type: string

example: db2d002e-2702-41ec-66f5-c002a80a3d3f

required: True

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages into a logical unit.

Currently, we use a UUID for that matter, but future versions may use
a different key for this.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.

NOTE: As these type of messages can be written at any time and outside
a "request context" it may happen that this correlation id does not
match with any other. Logging implementations may provide a way to
inherit correlation ids from request processing layers further up in
the processing stack. If so, that id should be used.


==== request_id

example: e24a5963-95eb-4568-b1ae-81b67c41e99a

required: False

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages to a request.


==== w3c_traceparent

type: string

example: 00-4bf92f3577b34da6a3ce929d0e0e4736-00f067aa0ba902b7-01

required: False

The content of the W3C traceparent header as defined in 
https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/#traceparent-header.
The traceparent allows correlation of logs to the request.


==== sap_passport

type: string

example: 2a54482a0300e60000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002a54482a

required: False

SAP Passport is an end to end tracing technology used in many SAP products.
It is a binary format encoded in hex notation.
Applications can add the whole SAP Passport in this field or give its constituents in the respective fields. 


==== sap_passport_Action

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the action of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ActionType

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the action type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ClientNumber

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the client number of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ConnectionCounter

type: integer

required: False

This field can contain the connection counter of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ConnectionId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the connection id type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ComponentName

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the component name of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_ComponentType

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the component type of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_PreviousComponentName

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the previous component name of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_TraceFlags

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the trace flags of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_TransactionId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the transaction id of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_RootContextId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the root context id of an SAP Passport. 


==== sap_passport_UserId

type: string

required: False

This field can contain the user id of an SAP Passport. 


==== tenant_id

example: e24a5963-95eb-4568-b1ae-81b67c41e99a

required: False

A unique identifier that can be used to correlate multiple messages to a tenant.


==== tenant_subdomain

example: acme-inc

required: False

A unique identifier that represents the subdomain of the current tenant specific request url, e.g. acme-inc in https://acme-inc.eu10.cloud.alm.sap/home


==== component_id

type: string

example: 9e6f3ecf-def0-4baf-8fac-9339e61d5645

required: True

A unique identifier of the software component that has written the message. 
It may either be a "service" or an "application" that can be deployed to
a container or VM, but it may not yet fully identify the actual "running instance" of
that "component".

NOTE: For applications in CF, this is the "application_id", but we may have more than one
instance of that running.


==== component_name

type: string

example: my-fancy-component

required: False

A human-friendly, not necessarily unique, name representing the software component.


==== component_type

type: string

example: application

required: True

The type of the software component that has written the message.

Either "application" or "service"


==== component_instance

type: string

example: 7

required: True

CF allows us to scale out horizontally by running several instances of the
same "component" in one container, this is identifying the instance.
Defaults to "0".


==== container_id

type: string

example: ???

format: ???

required: False

The unique identifier of the container on which the software component instance is running.

NOTE: If security/privacy is not an issue, an IP address would be ok.

NOTE: CF sets an environment variable "INSTANCE_IP" that is currently used
for that purpose


==== organization_id

type: string

example: 280437b3-dd8b-40b1-bbab-1f05a44345f8

required: True

The unique identifier of the Cloud Foundry organization to which the software component belongs.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== organization_name

type: string

example: acme

required: True

The human-readable name of the Cloud Foundry organization.

NOTE: Most likely NOT unique!

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== space_id

type: string

example: 280437b3-dd8b-40b1-bbab-1f05a44345f8

required: True

The unique identifier of the Cloud Foundry space to which the software component belongs.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== space_name

type: string

example: test

required: True

The human-readable name of the Cloud Foundry space.

NOTE: Most likely NOT unique!


==== layer

type: string

example: [JAVA:BusinessLogicController]

required: True

The execution layer in the overall processing chain that has written the message.


==== type

type: string

required: True

The type of the message.
To make the message self-contained this is the type tag.
As we're talking about log messages, it's always "logs".


[[exported-fields-app-logs]]
=== Application log message fields Fields

The individual fields of a log message. Should be familiar to anyone who
ever used a logging library in Java...



==== logger

type: string

example: com.sap.demo.shine.OrderController

required: True

The actual application entity that wrote the log message, e.g. the Java class name.

NOTE: In Java, this is the name that was passed to the LoggerFactory
when instantiating a Logger.


==== thread

type: string

example: http-nio-4655

required: False

The execution thread in which the log message has been written.

"-" indicates that no proper value could be provided.


==== level

type: string

example: INFO

required: True

The log "level" indicating the severity of the log message.


==== msg

type: string

example: This is a log messasge

required: True

The original log message that has been written by the application.


==== exception_type

type: string

example: java.lang.NullPointerException

required: False

The Java class name of the logged exception when available.


==== exception_message

type: string

example: Something went wrong

required: False

The message of the logged exception when available.


==== stacktrace

type: array

example: stacktrace: ["java.lang.NullPointerException","at com.sap.demo.exception.NullPointerException"]

required: False

Stacktrace information in case the message is reporting an exception.

NOTE: This MUST NOT contain NEWLINE or TAB characters!


==== categories

type: string

required: False

A list of names to further categorize this log message.


==== #cf

type: object

example: "#cf": {
  "string": [
    {"l":"some_label", "v":"some_value", "i": 0},
    {"l":"other_label", "v":"other_value", "i": 1}
  ]
}


required: False

An object containing collections of non-standard fields.
The field "string" contains custom fields with label "l", value "v" and an index "i".
The index can be used for field order during parsing.

NOTE: As this is "custom" there are no predefined fields here!
